                         

New Features and Enhancements in V9 (M1 and M2)
===============================================

In this release, the following features have been introduced to provide an enhanced Volt MX Iris experience.

 

*   [Storyboard View in Volt MX Iris](#storyboard-view-in-volt-mx-iris)
*   [Data & Services Panel Enhancements](#data-amp-services-panel-enhancements)
*   [Action Editor Enhancements](#action-editor-enhancements)
*   [App Logo for Applications on the Enterprise App Store](#app-logo-for-applications-on-the-enterprise-app-store)
*   [Push Notifications for Cloud Build](#push-notifications-for-cloud-build)
*   [Responsive Support for Collections](#responsive-support-for-collections)
*   [Browser widget Type enhancement in iOS](#browser-widget-type-enhancement-in-ios)
*   [Auto-fill property for TextBox widget](#auto-fill-property-for-textbox-widget)
*   [Android Enhancements](#android-enhancements)
*   [Enable Debugging During Automation in Android](#enable-debugging-during-automation-in-android)
*   [Widget Enhancements for Android Q](#widget-enhancements-for-android-q)
*   [Widget Enhancements for Responsive Web](#widget-enhancements-for-responsive-web)
*   [Calendar Widget Enhancements](#calendar-widget-enhancements)
*   [Swipe Functionality for Segment Widget](#swipe-functionality-for-segment-widget)
*   [Jasmine Test Automation](#jasmine-test-automation)
*   [VoltMX IQ Enhancements](#volt-mx-iq-enhancements)
*   [DeviceInfo Object Enhancements](#deviceinfo-object-enhancements)

 

Storyboard View in Volt MX Iris
----------------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, while designing your app, you can develop a storyboard by using Storyboard view. Storyboard view in Volt MX Iris is a progressive way for you to quickly get the overall picture of an application. You can also use this feature to define simple navigation actions between various forms in a project.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Create_the_Storyboard_of_your_App.md).

Data & Services Panel Enhancements
----------------------------------

### Volt MX Foundry Node Moved to the Data & Services Panel

In Volt MX Iris, the Volt MX Foundry node and associated actions have been shifted from the Project Explorer to the Data & Services panel. This feature has been introduced to enable a unified and enhanced user experience of using Volt MX Foundry data and services from within Volt MX Iris.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/PublishVoltMXFoundryServicesApp.md#FoundryNodeinData&ServicesPanel).

### Disable/Enable the Categorization of Project Services

Previously, Project Services were categorized into Identity, Integration, and Objects by default. Even when there were not any linked services, those categories under Project Services were displayed.

From Volt MX Iris V9, the service categories are displayed under Project Services only when a service is linked from the Data & Services panel. In addition, an option to disable/enable the categorization of linked services under Project Services has been provided in the Preferences window.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.md#disable/enablecategorizationofProjectServices).

### Enhanced Discoverability of Data Storage Object Services

Data Storage Object services and related actions are now prominently displayed on the Data & Services panel in Volt MX Iris. This feature has been introduced for an enhanced discoverability and simplified usage of Data Storage Object services in Volt MX Iris.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.md#StorageServicesDiscoverability).

### Configure an Object Data Model by Importing an Excel File

From Volt MX Iris V9, you can create an object data model for an Object service by importing a locally-stored Microsoft Excel file. Earlier, you had to generate a data model in Volt MX Foundry Object services from back-end systems such as RDBMS and SAP, but not from an Excel file. With this feature, low-code developers have an easy and faster way to import an object data model from a locally-stored Excel file.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.md#configure-an-object-data-model-by-importing-an-excel-file).

### Simplified Data Storage Object Service Invocation

This feature simplifies the invocation and field definition of Data Storage Object services from the Data & Services panel. You can create a new data table object for an Object service. Several object details such as data type, Primary key, nullable, and maximum length can also be specified.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.md#create-a-data-table-for-an-object-service).

### Support for Enumeration Data Type in Object Data Model

From Volt MX Iris V9, Enumeration (enum) has been provided as a data type for a field in the object data model of an Object service. The (enum) data type allows you to add a maximum of 50 comma-separated options as valid values in a field. This data type is rendered as a drop-down list containing only those valid values that you defined, and users can choose only one option at a time for that field.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.md#EnumDatatype).

### Dynamic Customization of Data Model Objects

You can configure the generation of data model objects of an Object Service while designing your app. This enhancement enables you to select, reorder, and customize various properties of all the fields that you want to be displayed on the required screen of your app.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.md#customize-the-generation-of-data-model-objects).

### Generation of Object Services UI for Responsive Web

The UI/UX generated for Responsive Web forms on the drag and drop of Object services has been enhanced. Instead of separate List and Detail forms, a Grid Details form and a List & Detail form have been introduced. These options are available on the drag and drop of the Get operation from the Data & Services panel.

In addition, the Entry form that gets generated currently for Web on the drag and drop of Create and Update Object service operations has been updated.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.md#generate-object-services-ui-for-responsive-web).

### Generation of CRUD Forms for an Object Service

From Volt MX Iris V9, full CRUD forms are generated on the drag and drop of a method, object, or the entire Object service. This feature is available on Mobile, Tablet, and Responsive Web channels.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.md#generate-crud-forms-for-an-object-service).

Action Editor Enhancements
--------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, while adding actions to widgets present in your app, the Action Editor now opens in a new modal window. The window contains three sections: A list of all the actions in the left pane, the Action Editor Canvas in the middle, and a properties pane on the right.

There are three different views in which the Action Editor is displayed: Diagram, Design, and Code. The default view is the Diagram View, which represents the action sequence in a graphical flow structure. The existing view of the Action Editor is the Design View. The Code View displays the action sequence in JavaScript format.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/working_with_Action_Editor.md).

### New Actions in Action Editor

From Volt MX Iris V9, you can add the following new actions to widgets present in your app:

*   [Modify Local Variable](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.md#modify-variable)
*   [Loop](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.md#loop-action)
*   [Try-Catch block](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.md#try-catch)
*   [String operations](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.md#string-operation)
*   [Set Timeout](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.md#set-timeout)
*   [Clear Timeout](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.md#clear-timeout)
*   [Get Local Storage](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsExternal.md#get-local-storage)
*   [Set Local Storage](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsExternal.md#set-local-storage)
*   [Phone Call](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsExternal.md#phone-call)

  

App Logo for Applications on the Enterprise App Store
-----------------------------------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, the logo of an application published to the Enterprise App Store (EAS) will be the image that you set in Project Settings > Native > Application Logo. If you do not set an application logo, a default icon is displayed as the application logo.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/EAS.md#AppLogo).

Push Notifications for Cloud Build
----------------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, you can configure push notifications for applications that are built by using cloud build.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Cloud_Build_in_VoltMX_Iris.md#Push).

Responsive Support for Collections
----------------------------------

Earlier, you could not create components with responsive properties. From Volt MX Iris V9, you can create instances of components (without contract) and add responsive properties within responsive forms. When you add such instances to a collection library, the responsive properties that are configured along with the custom breakpoints do not change; even when you reuse them in a different project/form via the Collection Library.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Responsive_Design_8_2.md#working-with-skins-widgets-and-components).

Browser widget Type enhancement in iOS
--------------------------------------

Earlier, the default type of Browser widget used in iOS was UIWebView. From Volt MX Iris V9 onwards, the default value of Browser Widget Type has been changed from UIWebView to [WKWebView](../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/Browser.md) in iOS platform.

Auto-fill property for TextBox widget
-------------------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, the [setImportantForAutofill](../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/TextBox_Properties.md#setImportantForAutofill) has been introduced on the Android platform for TextBox widgets. This property specifies whether a TextBox widget must be considered by the platform to be auto-filled or not.

Android Enhancements
--------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, support for Android X is added in Volt MX Iris. Further, a few enhancements are made to the following APIs.

*   The [requestPermissionSet](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.application_functions_runtimepermissionsapi.md#reqPermissionSet) API has been added in the voltmx.application namespace to request the user for a set of permissions before they can access the resources of the device. The [requestPermission](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.application_functions_runtimepermissionsapi.md#requestPermission) API has been enhanced to provides a unique error code that identifies if the access permission is denied using the Never Ask Again option.
*   The Geofencing feature has been enhanced to receive better location updates in the background. The [startForegroundService](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.application_functions.md#StartForeground), [updateForegroundNotification](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.application_functions.md#updateForeground), and [stopForegroundService](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.application_functions.md#stopForeground) APIs have been added in the voltmx.application namespace to start, update, and stop a foreground service to run user initiated actions when an app is either running in the background or when the device is locked.
*   The [retrieveSMS](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.phone_functions.md#retrieveSMS), [clearSMSListeners](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.phone_functions.md#clearShiftListeners), and [generateAppHashKey](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.phone_functions.md#generate) APIs have been added in the voltmx.phone namespace to automate the user authentication process by using a one time password (OTP).

 

Enable Debugging During Automation in Android
---------------------------------------------

In previous versions of Volt MX Iris, it was not possible to debug an Android application while the application was using Jasmine test scripts. From Volt MX Iris V9, you can enable debugging while using Jasmine scripts for testing by adding the [enableJasmineJSDebuggingForAndroid](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Using_Test_Scripts.md#Debug) key to the projectproperies.JSON file.

Widget Enhancements for Android Q
---------------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, the [hyphenationFrequency](../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/Label_Properties.md#hyphenationFrequency) and [breakStrategy](../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/Label_Properties.md#breakStrategy) properties have been introduced for the Android platform. This is to improve the text layout in the Label and RichText widgets. The hyphenationFrequency property specifies the periodicity of the word breaks in a text, and the breakStrategy property specifies the method of line breaking in paragraphs of text.

Widget Enhancements for Responsive Web
--------------------------------------

### Zooming support for Map for Responsive Web

From Volt MX Iris V9, support for [zoomLevel](../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/Map_Properties.md#zoomLeve) and [showZoomControl](../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/Map_Properties.md#showZoom) properties of the Map widget has been added in the Responsive Web and SPA platforms. This feature helps users control the zoom feature of a map in Responsive Web and SPA platforms.

### Microphone API for Responsive Web

From Iris V9, support for the [voltmx.media.record](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.media_functions.md#record) API has been provided in the Responsive Web platform. This API helps your application to record audio.

### Screen Recording and Screenshot APIs for Responsive Web

From Iris V9, the [voltmx.screenrecorder](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.screenrecorder.md#volt-mx-screenrecorder-namespace) namespace has been introduced to implement the screen record feature of WebRTC in Web apps. The [voltmx.screenshot](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx_functions.md#screenshot) API has also been introduced to capture the whole web page or screen of your web application.

Calendar widget Enhancements
----------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, you can modify the alignment of the calendar icon when the RTL feature is enabled by using the [calendarIconAlignment](../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/Calendar_Properties.md#calendarIconAlignment) property. You can also hide the dates of the previous and next months by using the [hidePreviousNextMonthDates](../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/Calendar_Properties.md#hidePreviousNextMonthDates) property.

Swipe Functionality for Segment Widget
--------------------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, you can configure the Swipe functionality in Segment widget. You can either dismiss a row or reveal certain actions when a Segment row is swiped to the left or right.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Flex_Container.md#swipe-config).

Jasmine Test Automation
-----------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, the test automation feature for the Jasmine testing framework has been provided. Test automation enables you to record any activity on the application and generate test scripts.

Furthermore, you can edit the recorded test script by adding actions such as wait, assert, and scroll to widget. You can then run the generated test scripts by using the Live Preview or a mobile device to test the application.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/TestAutomation.md).

Volt MX  IQ Enhancements
--------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, the following features have been enhanced in Volt MX IQ:

*   The translation feature has been enhanced to convert the text used for properties of a widget that have been set through code into equivalent i18n keys in the target language. For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/VoltMX_IQ.md#translation).
*   You can now search for any Hike that is available in the Hikes Catalog by using Volt MX IQ. The list of related Hikes appears under the Hikes tab in the Volt MX IQ chat window. For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/VoltMX_IQ.md#hike-search).
*   Support to identify the duplicates of a design has been added in Volt MX IQ. When you type a query to identify the duplicate designs, Volt MX IQ displays the duplicate designs that are available in the project. For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/VoltMX_IQ.md#IdentifyDuplicates).
*   Volt MX IQ provides support to open a terminal within Volt MX Iris. When users type a command to open a terminal, a terminal tab opens in the bottom pane of Volt MX Iris. For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/VoltMXIQCommands.md#OpenTerminal).

 

DeviceInfo Object Enhancements
------------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, for Responsive Web platform, you can specify the OS type name, OS version, and hasCamera properties for the deviceInfo object. For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.os_objects_deviceinfo.md).
