                         

New Features and Enhancements in V9 Preview2
============================================

In this release, the following features have been introduced to provide an enhanced Volt MX Iris experience.

 

*   [Support for KSLint](#support-for-kslint)
*   [Workflow Service support in the Data and Services Panel](#workflow-service-support-in-the-data-and-services-panel)
*   [Project Settings Enhancements](#project-settings-enhancements)
*   [Jasmine Test Automation Enhancements](#jasmine-test-automation-enhancements)
*   [Resolve Action Conflicts in Bulk](#resolve-action-conflicts-in-bulk)
*   [Custom widget support](#custom-widget-support)
*   [ControllerActions Files In Gitignore](#controlleractions-files-in-gitignore)
*   [Capture Image Metadata](#capture-image-metadata)
*   [Widget Support for the CursorType Property](#widget-support-for-cursortype-property)
*   [Convert Integer to Number through Android FFI](#convert-integer-to-number-through-android-ffi)
*   [Deprecated Support for Windows 8](#deprecated-support-for-windows-8)

 

Support for KSLint
------------------

Volt MX  Iris V9 provides support for a new linter, **KSLint**. KSLint identifies errors in code and also any deviations from basic JavaScript code guidelines. KSLint allows developers to configure default rules and add new custom rules.

For more information on KSLint, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/KSLint.md).

Workflow Service support in the Data and Services Panel
-------------------------------------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, you can configure, edit, and view Back-end workflows associated with a Service through the Data and Services Panel.

For more information on the Workflow support, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.md#create-a-backend-workflow-service).

Project Settings Enhancements
-----------------------------

The Project Settings section is enhanced to port a few features from Volt MX Iris Classic into Volt MX Iris. New settings introduced are Android Wear Settings, Platform Settings for iOS, and General Tab in the Adaptive Web Settings.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Project_Properties_in_VoltMX_Iris.md).

Jasmine Test Automation Enhancements
------------------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, the following enhancements have been made to the Jasmine Test Framework:

*   Ability to modify the port on which the Volt MX Automator runs. For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/TestAutomation.md#FAQConnect).
*   Ability to edit a recorded test case manually through code with the **Edit Test Case Manually** option. For more information on this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/TestAutomation.md#edit-a-test-case-manually).

Resolve Action Conflicts in Bulk
--------------------------------

The Resolve Action Conflicts feature in Volt MX Iris V9, helps a developer to resolve any conflicts in the actions of a widget or form when a project is imported from Volt MX Iris Classic to Volt MX Iris.  
This feature has been introduced to support the porting of features from Volt MX Iris Classic into Volt MX Iris.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ImportVoltMXIrisClassicProject.md#resolve-conflicts-between-developer-and-designer-actions).

Custom widget support
---------------------

In earlier versions of Volt MX Iris, importing custom widgets into SPA and Desktop Web applications was not possible. From Volt MX Iris V9, developers can import custom widgets into SPA and Desktop Web applications. Developers can also add custom web widgets as a component into an application.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/SPA_Custom_Widget.md).

ControllerActions Files In Gitignore
------------------------------------

For a form created using the Reference Architecture, Volt MX Iris creates a controlleractions.js file corresponding to the form. When the project is hosted on GIT, during the commit process, as Volt MX Iris creates the controlleractions.js file every time Iris restarts, GIT commits will result in conflicts. To avoid these conflicts, the controlleractions.js file commit process is modified, and now the file will automatically be added to the .gitignore folder.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/voltmx_ref_arch_api/Content/VoltMX_Reference_Architecture_Features.md#components-and-reference-architecture).

capture Image Metadata
----------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, when an image is captured using a Camera widget for Android and iOS applications, you can retrieve information such as height, width, EXIF version, etc. of the captured image.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/Camera_Events.md).

Widget Support for CursorType Property
--------------------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, you can assign the mouse pointer type to a widget by navigating to the Hover Skin tab in the Skin tab in the Properties panel of Volt MX Iris.

For more information about this feature, click [here](../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/Button_Properties.md).

Convert Integer to Number through Android FFI
---------------------------------------------

In earlier versions of Volt MX Iris, when an FFI code returns an integer value, it was passed as an opaque object. From Volt MX Iris V9, all Integer values that are returned from an FFI code are passed in the Number type to the JavaScript code.

Deprecated Support for Windows 8
--------------------------------

From Volt MX Iris V9, support for Windows 8 devices has been deprecated.
