                          

What's New in V9
================

Volt MX  Iris
------------------

<table style="width: 100%;border-top-left-radius: 0px;border-top-right-radius: 0px;border-bottom-right-radius: 0px;border-bottom-left-radius: 0px;border-left-style: solid;border-left-width: 0pt;border-left-color: #ccc;border-right-style: solid;border-right-width: 0pt;border-right-color: #ccc;border-top-style: solid;border-top-width: 0pt;border-top-color: #ccc;border-bottom-style: solid;border-bottom-width: 0pt;border-bottom-color: #ccc;margin-left: auto;margin-right: auto;mc-table-style: url('../Resources/TableStyles/Inner.css');" class="TableStyle-Inner" cellspacing="0"><colgroup><col class="Column-Column1" style="width: 33.3%;"> <col class="Column-Column1" style="width: 33.3%;"> <col class="Column-Column1" style="width: 33.4%;"></colgroup><tbody><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>STORYBOARD VIEW IN VOLTMX IRIS</h2>Storyboard view in Volt MX Iris enables a user to view all the application forms in a single view, organize the application flow and manage the navigation logic. You can use this feature to define simple navigation actions between various forms in a project. You can also create forms within App Groups in Storyboard view.For more information on this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Create_the_Storyboard_of_your_App.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>VOLTMX TEST FRAMEWORK</h2>The Volt MX test framework enables users to record any activity on the application and generate test scripts. Further, the dashboard provides an overview of the last five tests that have been executed and an option to play recorded tests, then automate these tests as part of the continuous testing lifecycle through our DevOps platform. The testing framework also allows you to build atomic test cases that can be reused as part of larger test suites and test plans.For more information on this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/TestAutomation.html#Dashboard" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyD-Column1-Body1"><h2>CLIENT-SIDE WORKFLOW</h2>Easily create Client-side business logic using the new client-side workflow in Iris. The Client- side workflow can be launched from the Storyboard view and can be created following an event driven design in a workflow editor using drag &amp; drop actions to design a visual workflow of the client side business rules. For more information on the Workflow support, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.html#Create-Backend_Workflow" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>RAPID APP Generation</h2>Adding to its many existing productivity features, Iris now enables users to rapidly generate simple applications with CRUD based forms from objects in a database or a data model. In a few simple steps users can import data from an excel, csv or from a database and generate applications that allows users to view, create, update and delete data. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.html#GenerateCRUDFormsforanObjectService" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>VOLTMX COLLAB</h2>The Collab feature helps developers who use Git as the collaboration tool to avoid conflicts while working on the same Iris project. Collab notifies the developers who work on the same file or the same project and highlights possible conflicts.For more information on this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Collab.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyD-Column1-Body1"><h2>GENERATE AN APP BINARY FOR THE VOLTMX APP VIEWER APP</h2>A new menu option, Customize Volt MX App, is added in the Build Menu of Volt MX Iris. When this menu option is selected, Volt MX Iris internally checks for NFIs in the app. If there are no NFIs, the QR code to download the Volt MX App Viewer App is generated. If the app uses NFIs, the Build process packages the NFIs with the app and generates a binary that you can view on the Volt MX App Viewer App. For more information on this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Package_AppViewer.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>BUILD NATIVE APPS LOCALly</h2>You can now build native apps on a local machine A new option, Build Native Local, is added in the Build menu of Volt MX Iris. Use this menu option to build native app binaries in Volt MX Iris and store the binaries on a local machine.For more information on this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/LocalBuildStarter.html" target="_blank">here</a>. <b>Build a Universal Windows Platform App</b> You can generate a Universal Windows Platform app binary using the Build Native Local option in the Build menu of Volt MX Iris. You must configure the required settings and certificates in the Windows Native settings before you build the application. For more information on generating a Windows native app, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/LocalBuildStarter.html#BuildLocalWindows" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>DATA &amp; SERVICES PANEL ENHANCEMENTS</h2>Several enhancements were made to the Data &amp; Services Panel. Volt MX Foundry Node Moved to the Data &amp; Services Panel - For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/PublishVoltMXFoundryServicesApp.html#FoundryNodeinData&amp;ServicesPanel" target="_blank">here</a>. Disable/Enable the Categorization of Project Services - For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.html#disable/enablecategorizationofProjectServices" target="_blank">here</a>. Enhanced Discoverability of Data Storage Object Services - For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.html#StorageServicesDiscoverability" target="_blank">here</a>. Configure an Object Data Model by Importing an Excel File - For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.html#ConfigureanObjectDataModelbyImportinganExcelFile" target="_blank">here</a>. Simplified Data Storage Object Service Invocation - For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.html#CreateaNewDataTableObject" target="_blank">here</a>. Support for Enumeration Data Type in Object Data Model - For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.html#EnumDatatype" target="_blank">here</a>. Customize the Generation of Data Model Objects - For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.html#CustomizetheGenerationofDataModelObjects" target="_blank">here</a>. Dynamic Customization of Data Model Objects - For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.html#CustomizetheGenerationofDataModelObjects" target="_blank">here</a>. Generation of Object Services UI for Responsive Web - For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.html#GenerateObjectServicesUIforResponsiveWeb" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyD-Column1-Body1"><h2>MAPPING EDITOR ENHANCEMENTS</h2>Set Data for the Segment in a Component - Auto-generate Templates and widgets for a Segment in a Component. For more information about this enhancement, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/DataPanel.html#Map_Service_Parameters_to_the_Segment_of_a_Component" target="_blank">here</a>. Create a Template from a Default Segment Template – Create a customized template from an auto-generated segment template.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Segment2.html#Create_a_Segment_Template" target="_blank">here</a>. Set Data for the Widgets in the Section Header Template of a Segment - Map the widgets of the Section Header Template of a Segment by using the Mapping Editor.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Segment2.html#Map_a_Segment's_Section_Header_Template" target="_blank">here</a>. Set Data for Components with Contract - Use the Mapping Editor to create data mappings among various forms, components with contract, and widget elements as well as global variables. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/C_CreatingComponent.html#Set_Data_for_Components_with_Contract" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>ACTION EDITOR ENHANCEMENTS</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, while adding actions to widgets present in your app, the Action Editor now opens in a new modal window. The window contains three sections: A list of all the actions in the left pane, the Action Editor Canvas in the middle, and a properties pane on the right. There are three different views in which the Action Editor is displayed: Diagram, Design, and Code. The default view is the Diagram View, which represents the action sequence in a graphical flow structure. The existing view of the Action Editor is the Design View. The Code View displays the action sequence in JavaScript format.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/working_with_Action_Editor.html" target="_blank">here</a>. Several new actions are added for widgets.<a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.html#Modify" target="_blank">Modify Local Variable</a>, <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.html#Loop" target="_blank">Loop</a>, <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.html#Try" target="_blank">Try-Catch block</a>, <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.html#String" target="_blank">String operations</a>, <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.html#Set" target="_blank">Set Timeout</a>, <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNavigation.html#Clear" target="_blank">Clear Timeout</a>, <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsExternal.html#Get" target="_blank">Get Local Storage</a>, <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsExternal.html#Set" target="_blank">Set Local Storage</a>, and <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsExternal.html#Phone" target="_blank">Phone Call</a>. <b>Consolidation of Service Invocation Actions</b> From Volt MX Iris V9, the service invocation action feature in the Action Editor has been revamped to include an Invoke a Service action that contains the option to invoke all types of services (Identity, Integration, Orchestration, Object Services) from one place.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ActionsNetworkAPIs.html#Invoke_a_Service" target="_blank">here</a>. <b>Search Functionality and UX Updates</b> New fuzzy search functionality has been added to search for actions in the Action Editor. In addition, various user experience enhancements have been made in the Action Editor, such as a new error message banner, color differentiation of the main flow diagram and the nested flow, support for Rename Action Sequences, and display Help text for Actions.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/working_with_Action_Editor.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>VOLTMX IQ ENHANCEMENTs</h2>The translation feature has been enhanced to convert the text used for properties of a widget that have been set through code into equivalent i18n keys in the target language. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/VoltMX_IQ.html#Translation" target="_blank">here</a>. You can now search for any Hike that is available in the Hikes Catalog by using Volt MX IQ. The list of related Hikes appears under the Hikes tab in the Volt MX IQ chat window. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/VoltMX_IQ.html#Hike" target="_blank">here</a>. Support to identify the duplicates of a design has been added in Volt MX IQ. When you type a query to identify the duplicate designs, Volt MX IQ displays the duplicate designs that are available in the project. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/VoltMX_IQ.html#IdentifyDuplicates" target="_blank">here</a>. Support to open a terminal within Volt MX Iris. When users type a command to open a terminal, a terminal tab opens in the bottom pane of Volt MX Iris. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/VoltMXIQCommands.html#OpenTerminal" target="_blank">here</a>. Ability to pause the suggestions feature for an hour. Using the Pause suggestions feature, you can pause the design suggestions for the current form. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/VoltMX_IQ.html#Pause" target="_blank">here</a>. Ability to convert a design suggestion into a component and import the component into your project. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/VoltMX_IQ.html#ConvertToComponent" target="_blank">here</a>. Ability to enable or disable Design Suggestions from the Help menu. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/VoltMX_IQ.html#Enabling" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyD-Column1-Body1"><h2>Android Enhancements</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, support for Android X is added in Volt MX Iris. Further, a few enhancements are made to the following APIs. The <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.application_functions_runtimepermissionsapi.html#reqPermissionSet" target="_blank">requestPermissionSet</a> API has been added in the voltmx.application namespace to request the user for a set of permissions before they can access the resources of the device. The Geofencing feature has been enhanced to receive better location updates in the background. The <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.application_functions.html#StartForeground" target="_blank">startForegroundService</a>, <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.application_functions.html#updateForeground" target="_blank">updateForegroundNotification</a>, and <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.application_functions.html#stopForeground" target="_blank">stopForegroundService</a> APIs have been added in the voltmx.application namespace to start, update, and stop a foreground service to run user initiated actions when an app is either running in the background or when the device is locked. The <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.phone_functions.html#retrieveSMS" target="_blank">retrieveSMS</a>, <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.phone_functions.html#clearShiftListeners" target="_blank">clearSMSListeners</a>, and <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.phone_functions.html#generate" target="_blank">generateAppHashKey</a> APIs have been added in the voltmx.phone namespace to automate the user authentication process by using a one time password (OTP). From Volt MX Iris V9, 64-bit architecture is the default architecture for Android builds.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Native_App_Properties.html#Supportfor32-bitand64-bitArchitecturesinaSingleAPK" target="_blank">here</a>. The Local Authentication APIs have been enhanced to support additional biometrics such as Face and Iris based authentication along with touch-based authentication. For more information on Local Authentication APIs, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/localauthapi.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>PROJECT SETTINGS ENHANCEMENTS</h2>The Project Settings section is enhanced to port a few features from Iris Classic into Volt MX Iris. New settings introduced are Android Wear Settings, Platform Settings for iOS, and General Tab in the Adaptive Web Settings.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Project_Properties_in_VoltMX_Iris.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>Connect Volt MX Iris to an on-premise Volt MX Foundry Environment</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, an option to sign in to an on-premise Volt MX Foundry environment has been provided in the Volt MX Foundry section of the Preferences tab. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/LogInUsingCustAuth.html#Connect" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyD-Column1-Body1"><h2>SUPPORT FOR KSLINT</h2>VoltMX Iris V9 provides support for a new linter, KSLint. KSLint identifies errors in code and also any deviations from basic JavaScript code guidelines. KSLint allows developers to configure default rules and add new custom rules. For more information on KSLint, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/KSLint.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>Resolve Conflicts in Designer and Developer actions</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, if there are any conflicts in the actions of a widget or form when a project is imported from Iris Classic, Volt MX Iris provides an option to resolve these conflicts in bulk at the time of import or by widget during later stages of the app's development. This feature has been introduced to support the porting of actions from Iris Classic into Volt MX Iris.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ImportVoltMXIrisClassicProject.html#Resolve" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>RESPONSIVE SUPPORT FOR COLLECTIONS</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, you can create instances of components and add responsive properties within responsive forms. When you add such instances to a collection library, the responsive properties that are configured along with the custom breakpoints do not change; even when you reuse them in a different project or form via the Collection Library.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Responsive_Design_8_2.html#Working" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyD-Column1-Body1"><h2>SUPPORT FOR RESPONSIVE WEB COMPONENTS</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, you can create components with different breakpoints for responsive web apps. You can create layouts for different breakpoints and then insert it into a responsive web form.For more information on using responsive web components, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Responsive_Design_8_2.html#Responsi" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>SUPPORT FOR ONBREAKPOINTCHANGE EVENT IN COMPONENTS</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, the onBreakpointChange event has been added to Responsive Web components. When you select a Component that has been designed for Responsive Web Breakpoints, the event appears in the Action tab of the Properties panel in Volt MX Iris.For more information on this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/FlexForm_Events.html#RWComponents" target="_blank" style="background-color: #ffffff;">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>CUSTOM WIDGET SUPPORT</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, developers can import custom 3rd party web libraries into SPA and Desktop Web applications to generate a widget or a component.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/SPA_Custom_Widget.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyD-Column1-Body1"><h2>PDFVIEW WIDGET</h2>From iOS 11, a new widget to view PDFs on iOS devices is added. In previous versions of Volt MX Iris, the Browser widget was used to render the PDF content. You can load a PDF using the PDFView widget via a URL or a file Path. For more information on PDF Viewer, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.ui_functions.html#PDFView" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>IMAGE RECOGNITION API AND WIDGET</h2><b>Image Classification API</b> Image Classification is a technique used to classify real time objects based on the trained model categories. Using the Image Classification API, a developer can identify the name, label, entity or category of an object based on the image captured either from the device camera or by using an image from the device gallery. For more information, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/imageclassificationapi.html#top" target="_blank">here</a>. <b>MLCamera widget</b> From Volt MX Iris V9, you can use the MLCamera widget and Image Classification APIs to implement image recognition in your application. Using this capability, you can scan and classify real- world objects. For more information, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/MLCamera.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>AUGMENTED REALITY API AND WIDGET</h2><b>VoltMX.ui.ARRenderer API</b> A new VoltMX.ui.ARRenderer API is added in this release. The ARRenderer API creates the ARRenderer widget. The AR Renderer widget occupies some space on a form depending on its positional and dimensional properties.For more information on the VoltMX.ui.ARRenderer API, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.ui_functions.html#ARRenderer" target="_blank">here</a>. <b>ARRenderer widget</b> From Volt MX Iris V9, you can use the ARRenderer widget to implement augmented reality in your application. Using this widget, you can scan an area and then add a 3D object to that area. For more information on the AR Renderer widget, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/ARRenderer.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyD-Column1-Body1"><h2>WIDGET ENHANCEMENTS FOR RESPONSIVE WEB</h2><b>Zooming support for Map for Responsive Web</b> From Volt MX Iris V9, support for <a href="../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/content/Map_Properties.html#zoomLeve" target="_blank">zoomLevel</a> and <a href="../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/content/Map_Properties.html#showZoom" target="_blank">showZoomControl</a> properties of the Map widget has been added in the Responsive Web and SPA platforms. This feature helps users control the zoom feature of a map in Responsive Web and SPA platforms. <b>Microphone API for Responsive Web</b> From Iris V9, support for the <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.media_functions.html#record" target="_blank">voltmx.media.record</a> API has been provided in the Responsive Web platform. This API helps your application to record audio. <b>Screen Recording and Screenshot APIs for Responsive Web</b> From Iris V9, the <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx.screenrecorder.html#top" target="_blank">voltmx.screenrecorder</a> namespace has been introduced to implement the screen record feature of WebRTC in Web apps. The <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx_functions.html#screenshot" target="_blank">voltmx.screenshot</a> API has also been introduced to capture the whole web page or screen of your web application.</td></tr><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>WIDGET ENHANCEMENTS FOR ANDROID Q</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, the <a href="../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/content/Label_Properties.html#hyphenationFrequency" target="_blank" style="font-weight: normal;">hyphenationFrequency</a> and <a href="../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/content/Label_Properties.html#breakStrategy" target="_blank">breakStrategy</a> properties have been introduced for the Android platform. This is to improve the text layout in the Label and RichText widgets. The hyphenationFrequency property specifies the periodicity of the word breaks in a text, and the breakStrategy property specifies the method of line breaking in paragraphs of text.</td><td class="BodyE-Column1-Body1"><h2>SUPPORT FOR CSS 3.0</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, the Responsive Web platform has added architectural updates to the CSS generation for improved performance. Following this, the platform has deprecated support for the contextMenu and blockedUISkin properties. In addition, the Adaptive Web and Responsive Web applications now support the textStyle property for the Label widget.For more information, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_widget_prog_guide/Content/Label_Properties.html#textSyle" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyD-Column1-Body1"><h2>Cache Progressive Web Apps</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, two new caching strategies, cacheMechanism function and replace Service worker file, have been introduced. You can use these caching strategies to cache static and dynamic data from third-party services .For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/ProgressiveWebApp.html#Progress" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyB-Column1-Body1"><h2>CONTROLLERACTIONS FILES IN GITIGNORE</h2>For a form created using the Reference Architecture, Volt MX Iris creates a controlleractions.js file corresponding to the form. When the project is hosted on GIT, during the commit process, as Volt MX Iris creates the controlleractions.js file every time Iris restarts, GIT commits will result in conflicts. To avoid these conflicts, the controlleractions.js file commit process is modified, and now the file will automatically be added to the .gitignore folder. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/voltmx_ref_arch_api/Content/VoltMX_Reference_Architecture_Features.html#ComponentsandVoltMXReferenceArchitecture" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td class="BodyB-Column1-Body1"><h2>ENHANCEMENTS IN VOLTMX.NOSQL APIS</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, the following APIs have been added or enhanced: Added support for the <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx_functions.html#createIndices" target="_blank">voltmx.nosql.createIndices</a> API and the <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx_functions.html#deleteIndices" target="_blank">voltmx.nosql.deleteIndices</a> API. These APIs can be used to create and delete indices for a specific table in the database. Added the <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx_functions.html#groupBy" target="_blank">groupBy</a> method for the result object in the <a href="../../../Iris/iris_api_dev_guide/content/voltmx_functions.html#voltmx.nosql.fetchRecords" target="_blank">voltmx.nosql.fetchRecords</a> API. The API enables a developer to group records depending on a specified condition.</td><td class="BodyA-Column1-Body1"><h2>WebP format support for images</h2>From Volt MX Iris V9, Iris supports the WebP format for images in the SPA and the Desktop Web platforms.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Iris/iris_user_guide/Content/Adding_and_Managing_Images.html#Where" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyB-Column1-Body1"><h2>Productivity Features</h2>VoltMX Iris V9 includes many new developer productivity features like Enhanced performance on Project load, refresh and form load. Simplified the first time user experience. Search for marketplace components in the Component library</td><td class="BodyB-Column1-Body1"><h2>Digital Experiences</h2>This release packages some sample applications to showcase modern digital experiences integrated within Iris like Chatbot for native &amp; web apps, Artificial Intelligence &amp; Augmented Reality using the native AI &amp; AR frameworks.</td><td class="BodyA-Column1-Body1"><h2>Security Enhancements</h2>Security of applications is always our highest priority. With this release we have added Web Obfuscation and protection capabilities with our new &amp; best in class protected mode for Web.</td></tr><tr class="Body-Body1"><td class="BodyB-Column1-Body1"><h2>Support for Edge with Chromium</h2>Continuing with our support for the latest in web and native technologies, we have certified support for the latest Microsoft Edge browser using the Chromium engine.</td><td class="BodyB-Column1-Body1">&nbsp;</td><td class="BodyA-Column1-Body1">&nbsp;</td></tr></tbody></table>

Volt MX  Foundry
--------------

<table style="width: 100%;border-top-left-radius: 0px;border-top-right-radius: 0px;border-bottom-right-radius: 0px;border-bottom-left-radius: 0px;border-left-style: solid;border-left-width: 0pt;border-left-color: #ccc;border-right-style: solid;border-right-width: 0pt;border-right-color: #ccc;border-top-style: solid;border-top-width: 0pt;border-top-color: #ccc;border-bottom-style: solid;border-bottom-width: 0pt;border-bottom-color: #ccc;margin-left: auto;margin-right: auto;"><colgroup><col style="width: 33.3%;"> <col style="width: 33.3%;"> <col style="width: 33.4%;"></colgroup><tbody><tr><td><h2>Workflow</h2>VoltMX Foundry V9 introduces a BPMN 2.0 compliant visual workflow editor as a Foundry back-end service. Workflow provides a simplified low code approach for server-side business processes to create an application workflow. The server-side workflow supports features like validation rules for changing states, setting security policies, updating third party systems, and sending user notifications.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide/Content/Workflow.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td><h2>Rules as a Service</h2>VoltMX Foundry V9 introduces Rules as a first-class service in Foundry. You can create new Rules services and invoke them from the client app or integrate them with workflow for a conditional logic. Rule logic can be configured and updated at runtime from a business administration application.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide/Content/Rules_as_a_Service.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td><h2>AWS S3 and Cloudian adapters</h2>New Adapters for working with files in AWS S3 and Cloudian Storage have been added. Both the adapters are based on the new File System Adapter framework. These adapters can be invoked by the clients to securely upload/download content per user/group into a mounted drive on the client's premises or on the Cloud.For more information about S3 File Storage, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide/Content/S3_File_Storage.html" target="_blank">here</a> and for Cloudian File Storage, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide/Content/Cloudian_File_Storage.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><h2>Automatic Generation of Object model from MS Excel</h2>VoltMX Storage object service provides you the ability to create your own database schema on the relational database hosted on Volt MX Cloud. You can create a data model for objects in an Object Service by importing the column data in MS Excel.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide#ObjectsServices/Storage_ObjectServices.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td><h2>Server-side events</h2>Developers can create or listen to events from Foundry services, request or response or custom code. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide/Content/ServerEvents.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td><h2>Concurrent behavior in Identity services</h2>You can now control the concurrent behavior of the users in an Identity service. Out of the box configuration options are added to the Identity services to achieve this feature.For more information about this feature, click <a href="http://docsdirect.voltmx.com/voltmxlibrary/voltmxfoundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide/Content/ConcurrentUserLogins.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><h2>Granular feature level access</h2>You can define granular access to specific features of your Foundry Cloud environment, such as the ability to build only Client App, ability to access only App Services, ability to access only the Engagement services, or only the Logging Console, and so on. The Feature Level Access Permissions (Custom Access) functionality is supported only for Foundry Cloud.For more information about these features, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide#Settings_Cloud.html#Users-Cloud" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td><h2>Multiple Java Pre-processor and Post-processor</h2>You can now define multiple Pre-Processors and Post-Processors for services to make the custom code modular and extendible.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide/Content/Custom_Code_for_Invoking_Integration_from_pre-post-java.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td><h2>Improved App Key Management</h2>You can now have different App Key and App Secret for Native and Web apps for enhanced security of the apps. Added the ability to rotate the keys to improve security.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide#SeparateAppKey-Secret.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><h2>Enhanced Relational Database Adapter</h2>You can access external databases using a developer written query. Support for transactions has been added by providing the Transaction Manager. The user interface is simplified to configure Relational Database Services.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide/Content/Relational_Database_Adapter.html">here</a>.</td><td><h2>Enhanced Enterprise App Store</h2>EAS has been enhanced to leverage the Volt MX Engagement Services for sending manual push messages to all registered devices, or to a subset of devices, based on the device ID. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide/Content/PushNotificationsEas.html" target="_blank">here</a>. Added the ability to access the Enterprise App Store from Desktop Web. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_foundry_user_guide/Content/EnterpriseAppStore.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td><h2>Analytics Enhancements</h2>You can now export standard chart-based reports in excel format. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/standard_metrics_reports_guide/Content/Configure_Standard_Reports.html" target="_blank">here</a>. Added the ability to download the complete crash log from the Application Error Detail Report on Cloud.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/standard_metrics_reports_guide/Content/VoltMX_Analytics_-_Standard_Reports/Events_and_User_journey_reports.html#Applicat2" target="_blank">here</a>. Added support to install a new version app link while launching the Volt MX Foundry Mobile App. Deprecating support to the older version of Volt MX Foundry Mobile App. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_Foundry_analytics_mobile_app/Content/MobileFoundryMobileApp.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><h2>Enhanced Email API</h2>Added the ability to use <b>templates</b> to send emails. Added the ability to send email <b>attachments</b> (an existing file or a file downloaded from a signed URL) using the Email API. For more information about these enhancements, click <a href="../../../Foundry/engagement_api_guide/Content/REST_API_Email/EmailAPIs.html" target="_blank">here</a>. Enhanced the Engagement console with email attachment related configurations. For more information, click <a href="../../../Foundry/vms_console_user_guide/Content/Administration/Email_Configuration.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td><h2>Support for Salesforce SMS Aggregator</h2>Added support for the Salesforce SMS aggregator to send SMS messages in the Console and by using APIs.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/vms_console_user_guide/Content/Administration/SMS_Configuration.html#SALESFORCE" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td><h2>Application API key</h2>Added support to enable the use of a static key approach to send push notifications to an associated app via the engagement console and APIs. This static key can also be used to invoke other non-app specific APIs if the user has the correct set of permissions.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/vms_console_user_guide/Content/Apps/AppAPIKey.html#Archival" target="_blank">here</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><h2>VoltMX AppFactory</h2>Build and publish apps across clouds and cloud accounts using AppFactory. Allows you to build and publish apps to Docker images and Azure Cloud from the AppFactory console. Run your Jasmine test scripts on AppFactory for Native apps, Responsive web apps, and Progressive web apps as part of your build process on native devices or on the latest Google Chrome browser. Receive comprehensive results from each Jasmine Test run via email or review your test in AppFactory’s testing console. The Jasmine testing framework is incompatible with the Cordova and web browser widgets with this release. The Jasmine testing framework cannot test OAuth based logins with this release.For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_appfactory_user_guide/Content/TestingAnAppJasmine.html" target="_blank">here</a>. The Cloud Build and AppFactory analytics have been moved into Metrics DB. Added support for building pre-processors and post-processors. Improved the user interface for builds. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_appfactory_user_guide/Content/Configuration.html" target="_blank">here</a>. Improved result emails including build notes generated from git commits. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_appfactory_user_guide/Content/BuildingAnApp.html" target="_blank">here</a>. Added support for generating the 32bit binaries and x86 architecture supported binaries. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_appfactory_user_guide/Content/Configuration.html" target="_blank">here</a>. Added support for generating the Android App Bundle binary. For more information about this feature, click <a href="../../../Foundry/voltmx_appfactory_user_guide/Content/Configuration.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</td><td>&nbsp;</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr></tbody></table>
